---
layout: post
title: First Phoenix Park Duathlon
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

Friday, 7th May, 2010

It's now two days later and the race results are out. I finished in 18th place in a time of 41 minutes and 30 seconds. I was reasonably pleased with that time but I know I can puch myself more and knock a bit off that.

The first run was about trying to keep enough in reserve so that I could push out on the second one. I did the lap in 9:13 which was decent. Nothing of note really happened. I just did my usual of picking a pair of heels and staying with them. When they got too close, I picked another pair and worked off them.

The cycle was a bit of a struggle to stay out of drafting zones. I was overtaken by some people that didn't seem too bothered about this and appeared to be working off each other. But that's for them to live with.

I could feel that I haven't been on my bike enough so far and wasn't able to push on the last straight as much as I wanted to. I also made a mistake of letting other people decide what I was going to do. I was coming to the end of the bike and had picked out where I was going to be taking my shoes off when I heard a rip of velcro from behind me. I paniced at this and thought I was doing something wrong so proceeded to take off my shoes. I then had at least 100m more than I wanted to push out of my shoes. I'll know for next time. I know best!

On the second run, I was ruffled after seeing 4 people come in together into transition. I was determined to pass them out but I didn't want to do it in the first 200m and risk blowing up. There was a guy behind me with the same idea and when he passed me out, I stayed on his shoulder for a while. I passed Louise about halfway around the lap and pressed on from there. I dropped the guy that had passed me and caught two more before the finish. I was also in a sprint finish but didn't have the legs to pull it out of the bag.

I now have a target for the next race and I think I know what I have to do to reach it. I will be pushing a bit more with some training and introducing some interval sessions which I haven't done properly since about this time last year.

So it's game on for the next one in a months time.