---
layout: post
title: M3 Cycle
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

Tuesday, 18th May, 2010

I did the "M3 Cycle":http://www.m3cycle.ie/ on Sunday, a 100km cycle on the as yet unopened M3 motorway. It ended up being nearer to 108km and the motorway turned into dual carriageway for about 12km but at least there was no vehicular traffic. There was however a lot of bike traffic. 1400 people took part altogether over the three distances (100km, 54km and 14km).

The day started off early with registration in the Vortex nightclub. No I wasn't there from the night before! A leisurely coffee later and the group of us (Louise, Caoimhe, Aisling, Waggers and myself) headed off to park up on the motorway. We met Greg, Joe and Andy and put the bikes together, filled pockets with food and pumped up the tyres. 

The start was manic with everyone trying to find their space on the road and settle into a rhythm. Waggers and myself were working well together and passing groups at a rate of knots. We picked up a lot of stragglers and dropped some of them again. Eventually we caught up with Greg and his little band of merry cyclists. Greg wasn't too merry though. He was getting annoyed at the numpty cycling around him with people not doing their turn on the front and other annoying things. Personally, I was just glad to be out on the road and able to push as hard as I could for as long as possible.

I started flagging as we were a few km from the turn and took the ooportunity to down a gel and some water. This woke me up again and a banana at half way helped too. The last two km before the turn were a loooong drag up a hill. This split the group up a good bit. Coming back down it was nice though, even if I was frantically trying to peel the banana and not fall off.

I dropped Waggers shortly after this and thought I was on my own for a while until I heard the noise of a freewheel from behind me. I worked for about 10km but there was still no sign of anyone coming around to help me out. Finally they got the hint when I sat up and started to look around to see what was happening. Three ladies hanging on and none of them thought they were strong enough to work the front. It turned out that at least two of them were! 

We closed the gap up to Greg's group again and there was a nice chain gang working for a while. Every now and then someone would storm off the front, pedal maniacally for five minutes and then get caught and wheelsuck for the next twenty minutes.

After three hours and fifteen minutes, we passed the finish line, happy with what we had achieved and ready to eat any stray horses that were wandering around. Luckily there were bananas, biscuits, bars and sandwiches instead. Shortly after, Waggers arrived in and Joe wasn't too long behind him.

I went off to get changed and then back to the finish to wait for Louise. She came in after four hours and thirty minutes or so. She was very happy with it, if a bit tired! 

There was only one of the group still out there at this stage, we had missed Aisling, she was in a group with her cycling club. Andy was the sole remainder. Louise and myself decided to wait for him. And wait. And wait. And wait. He was the last person across the line! But he had finished it, and got the same cert that the rest of us did.

We dropped him back to his car at Sparky's and had some tea before going home and eating our weight in pasta bake.  A fantastic day, made better by the weather. It was dry all day long and only a little bit of wind which stayed as a tail wind most of the way home.

An average of 33km/h and 155bpm topped it all off, I wonder could I keep that up for another 80km?