---
layout: post
title: I petted a jellyfish
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

Tuesday, 25th May, 2010

I was in Howth last night for the first "Howth Aquathon":http://howthaquathon.com/joomla/. I arrived early because I didn't know how long it would take me with traffic so I go to see all the set up and that the tide was still waaaay out. I registered and met up with Greg who was doing it as well. We wandered around and checked out the course a bit.

After getting changed and the race briefing it was off for a light jog to get the legs working again. Then on with the wetsuit and down to the shore to watch the "short" race. It turned out that the buoys were in the wrong place and the swim was quite long. It also seemed to be hard to see the buoys against the sun as most people took the wrong line back in and aimed for buoy four instead of three.

After some comical shouts of "It's behind you" from the watching public, the first swimmers came out and headed off for their run. This meant it was time to go and check out the water. 

While we were warming up (or cooling down or whatever you do in the sea) two of the buoys were moved to shorten our swim lap. Back to the beach then for the run in start.

The hooter went and we waded back out until it got deep enough to swim. I was in the middle of the pack which was a new experience for me. Past the first buoy and on to the second, I was warming up nicely. Around the second buoy, sight the third and off we go, straight into a shoal of jellyfish. Luckily they weren't stingers but it threw me a little. We were in the cold channel here and it was starting to affect my hands, but when we turned the third buoy, the water warmed up again. 

Trying not to get caught in the rope of the last buoy was the problem. It was a bit long and drifting in the direction we were swimming. One more lap to go. Back around by the jellyfish, I hit one with my nose this time. And then it was the last long dolphin, swim, walk to the finish.

Out of the water and down came the wetsuit. The run wasn't too bad to transition and the matting helped. I took off the wetsuit but putting on my shoes took a few seconds longer than expected and there was a woozy second as I stood up again. But I was away on the run.

It was a lovely flat run, out along the pier, turn at the lighthouse and back again. Then around the finish chute and back out again for another lap. I felt really good during the run and even managed to push it out for the last 800m or so.

I finished in 44:27 which I was happy with. The swim took me about 21 minutes and with a long transition, I reckon the run was about 20-21 minutes.

After the great prize giving, we headed to Beshoffs for many family meal deals. Cod and chips, a perfect post race recovery meal! I'm looking forward to the next one in July now, I might even get out swimming again before it!