---
title: Championship Semi Final
tags:  []
layout: post
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

14th of September, 2010

The Junior Championship semi final was on last Saturday evening in Breffni Park against Munterconnaught. It's the fourth time we've played them this year, twice in the league and now twice in the championship. We'd only managed to beat them once previously so it was always going to be a tough one.

In the first half, we played with the wind and managed to go in up by two points. It maybe should have been more as we spurned a couple of goal chances and had a few bad wides. But we were happy enough and confident we could keep going in the right direction.

Unfortunately the second half started and we were all at sea. We lost midfield entirely and were unable to get out of our own half. We conceded a few points and they hit the crossbar before getting the goal that had been coming for a while. We had to make some changes around the middle and centre back and this changed how we were playing too. 

In the end we lost by 6 points, but we were well beaten before the final whistle. Even when we got a few points back we were still fighting amongst ourselves and there was no one able to stand up and lead us through the hard patches. 

I was really disappointed as I felt I had been bypassed in the match again, not the first time that has happened this year. I wasn't able to get into the game at all even though I was really up for it beforehand. I don't know whether I lwt myself drift out of games or if there is a way to force my way back in. I guess I will have to wait until next year to find out.

It's a pity we weren't able to win the match especially as I had to leave a good friend's wedding to go and play in it. We did get to meet up the next day and have a good chat, but it wasn't the same. On the plus side, myself and Louise got a good (if short) surf in on Sunday afternoon before heading back to the metropolis of Celbridge. More of that to follow in the next few weeks with a bit of luck and the right storms in the Atlantic.