---
title: Quarter Final v Templeport
tags:  []
layout: post
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

Friday, 3rd September 2010

We played the Junior Championship quarter final against Templeport last Saturday evening in Swanlinbar. For some reason, this was the only quarter final on last weekend, the others coming up this weekend.

I came straight from Celbridge with Louise and was there in plenty of time. When the team was read out I was quite disappointed not to be starting. It's been a long time since that happened! 

There was a strong wind blowing right down the pitch and we opted to play against it in the first half. Templeport got into their stride quicker and seemed to be sharper to the ball, but then Neven scored a mis hit goal to put us in front. We were still in front at half time but Templeport were looking dangerous with high balls and from frees.

I went out for the half time entertainment and even against the wind was kicking over a few points which gave me more confidence. 

Templeport came all out in the second half and we were finding it hard to get any rhythm going. About half way through I was called to warm up, I was going in. In I went to corner back and immediately the jostling and the digs started. I was knocked over and the unpire told both of us to cool it. Crazy seeing as I was the one getting hit. Anyway, first ball comes in and the corner forward goes down like a ton of bricks, free to Templeport. I decided the best way to play him from then on was to read the game better and get to the ball on my own. This worked better and I managed to clear a few dangerous balls out of defence.

He really wanted to get the ball and started wandering out past half way. I was happy to let him go and pick him up again as he came back. But then he changed his ideas and started to stay on the edge of the square looking for the high ball in. They were getting desperate. Shane cleared a few from the small square and it seemed like the danger was over, but then from nothing, they got a goal. This put three between us again and they piled forward to try and get another goal. I never felt like they would and in the end they ran out of time without any more chances.

So we got through to the semi finals. Only just mind you, but if we have to win every match by a small margin, I don't mind as long as we win. Nothing but training for the next few weeks and then we'll see who we get in the next round.