---
layout: post
title: Rant - Red light jumpers
---
h2. {{ page.title }}

Thursday, 24th June, 2010

I cycled in this morning, it was a lovely morning for it. Dry, warm and a nice tailwind to push us along. But then I got to Chapelizod and saw some idiotic driving.

The junction with the road that goes through Chapelizod road and up Knockmaroon hill is always busy and every time I have cycled through it I have seen not one but at least two cars (and sometimes three) push through when the light is red. They are always coming from the town side.

This morning was a little different. I was stopped at the lights, clipped out and saw the light go orange for the other cars. This means that we are going to get the green light next so I clipped in and got ready to go. The light went green and I started off. Then from my left a car decides that it still has time to go through the junction. Luckily they stopped when they saw me and waved apologetically. 

I got past the junction and looked back to see the car continuing on through the junction, forcing the other cars to yield for her. I couldn't believe it! Not only had she tried to jump the light and stopped to let someone go, she then carried on through with what she wanted. She wasn't blocking the junction in any way when she let me by so why did she think she had the right of way?

I read the letter pages in newpapers when I can because sometimes there are some good letters but mostly for a laugh at the opinionated writers. There are usually a few giving out about cyclists going through red lights and not paying attention to the rules of the road. This is then used as reasoning why cyclists should not be allowed to use the road. In this instance, I find it hard to not think the same about drivers.

This is not the only junction in Dublin that this happens at, but thankfully it's the only one that I have to go through on a regular basis. If only there was a program to get currently unemployed people out to stand at junctions and give tickets to red light jumpers. They could even pay for themselves in some places. All it really needs is a person in a uniform.